Anirudh:

Jason and I ran some power measurements on the 3G devices to estimate
power numbers for our 3-g experiment. This is the one in which we
positioned people in regions a priori. We define an access as a
complete HTTP transaction (ie request and response). Here's what we
observed.

For DIPLOMA, 3g accesses are dominated by the leader to cloud heart
beats (every 40 seconds) and non-leaders asking the cloud for
leadership and getting rejected (because there was already a leader).
The second one is a Wifi range issue, just like we observed earlier.
For CameraCloud, each user request for a photo or to upload a photo is
a cloud access.

For DIPLOMA, the average packet size across all 3g accesses is 710
bytes. This has a high standard deviation because all packets are
either very small (signaling for leadership,hearbeat etc) or very
large (photo data). The number of accesses in total is 242.
For CameraCloud, avg. packet size is 12919 bytes and there are 176
such accesses (since there are 176 user requests).

We estimated power consumption for a 710 byte packet and a 12919 byte
packet by sending a stream of 100 packets of each type in two separate
experiments. We got power numbers for both  downloading(methodA) and
uploading packets(methodB) of this size. They turn out to be larger
for the 12919 byte packet but overall, the increase in energy
consumption is dominated by the cost to transmit in the first place.

After all this, we got the average energy per request to be between
1.50(methodA) and 1.72(methodB) Joules for DIPLOMA and between
1.77(methodB) and 2.06(methodA) for CameraCloud. This is w/o Wifi idle
power. So, we do better, but with a disclaimer.

The reason we don't do much better is that our leader hearbeat time is
40 seconds which is pretty aggressive. In total there were 179 such
hearbeats across 202 user requests.

============

Li Shiuan:

 Frankly, it looks like we need to run another deployment, cos with the current numbers, this Foodspotter subsection may hurt more than it helps :(.

  Let's do another deployment of 10 phones:

1. In an area that has less WiFi interference (Mass Ave?)
2. Smaller regions so WiFi range is not a problem
3. Lower heartbeat time
4. With caching if possible, not a big deal if u can't.
5. 3G and 4G phones if possible, at least 3G numbers.

   I'll be traveling this week, so if u all can grab 10 people, pls go ahead and run it without me.


